SE_DAY-1-Assignment
Software Engineering Day1 Assignment
Part 1: Introduction to Software Engineering


Explain what software engineering is and discuss its importance in the technology industry.
Software engineering is the systematic application of engineering principles, methods amd tools to develop and maintain quality software systems.
software engineering is important in the technology industry cause it enables the creation of software applications and systems that powers various aspects of life 

Identify and describe at least three key milestones in the evolution of software engineering.
1. The development of programming language like Fortan 
2. Establishment of Software Engineer as a discipline 
3. the Adventure of structured program in 1970s

List and briefly explain the phases of the Software Development Life Cycle.
-Requirement
- Design : Design what tyoe of product you want 
- Implementation: you implement and come up with good solutions if there is a problem 
- Testing: as a software engineer yo need to test if it working 
- Deployment: Roll it out
- Maintances : This has to do with you upgrading what you in design 

Compare and contrast the Waterfall and Agile methodologies. Provide examples of scenarios where each would be appropriate.
Waterfall is the sequential approach with distinct phase. that is the Requirement, Design and Implementation phase . while for Agile, it focuses on the flexibility 

Describe the roles and responsibilities of a Software Developer, a Quality Assurance Engineer, and a Project Manager in a software engineering team.
A Quality Assurance Engineer: ensure quality by designing and executing test plans 
and a Project manager: Overseas the planning, execution amd delivery .

Discuss the importance of Integrated Development Environments (IDEs) and Version Control Systems (VCS) in the software development process. Give examples of each.
IDEs is the tools for writing, debugging and testing code. Example: Visual Studio 
Version Control system : software tools for tracking change to source code: Example: Git.
What are some common challenges faced by software engineers? Provide strategies to overcome these challenges.
Challenges: Technical Debt, Changing requirements.
strategies for overcoming: effective communication, agile methodologies. 

Explain the different types of testing (unit, integration, system, and acceptance) and their importance in software quality assurance.
Unit testing: Testing individual modules of software.
integration: testing interaction between component.
System: testing the entire software system as a whole.
Acceptance: testing the software against user requirement.

Part 2: Introduction to AI and Prompt Engineering


Define prompt engineering and discuss its importance in interacting with AI models.
Prompt engineering is act of creating, crafting questions or statement to get the best possible response from AI model.
Prompt engineering helps to make questions clear and specific,so the AI understands exactly what you want.
it helps to improves the interaction between human and AI .

Provide an example of a vague prompt and then improve it by making it clear, specific, and concise. Explain why the improved prompt is more effective
